example/README.md, before:


# Example | Creating a VPC Network

This example creates a VPC, subnets and the networking backbone to allow traffic to be routed in and also routed out to service endpoints on the internet.

## How to Run the Example

```
# get module and go to example directory
git clone github.com/devops4me/terraform-aws-vpc-network
cd terraform-aws-vpc-network/example

# export access information
export TF_VAR_in_role_arn=<<role-arn>>
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<<access-key-id>>
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<<secret-access-key>>
export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=<<region-key>>

# use terraform to bring up and tear down infastructure
terraform init
terraform apply
terraform destroy
```

## Inputs

| Input Variable             | Type    | Description                                                   | Required?      |
|:-------------------------- |:-------:|:------------------------------------------------------------- |:--------------:|
| **in_role_arn**            | String  | Pass if using an IAM role as the AWS access mechanism.        | optional       |

### What is the role arn?

If you are using an IAM role as the AWS access mechanism then pass it as in_role_arn commonly through an environment variable named **TF_VAR_in_role_arn** in addition to the usual AWS access key, secret key and default region parameters.

Individuals and small businesses who don't have hundreds of AWS accounts can omit the variable and thanks to dynamic assignment the assume_role block will cease to exist.


## Related Modules

Commit message:

laying down an excellent templatte for terraform module docs

example/README.md, after:


# Example | Creating a VPC Network

This example creates a VPC, subnets and the networking backbone to allow traffic to be routed in and also routed out to service endpoints on the internet. Let's first use docker then do the same thing with terraform installed on your machine.


## Docker | Create VPC Networks

With docker, you need not worry about which Terraform version is installed on your machine. All you need is docker and your AWS access credentials.

```
```

This **[Jenkinsfile](example/Jenkinsfile)** is used to continuously integrate this module thus guaranteeing correctness and reusability. Ensure you pin the (semantic) version of this module to avoid breaking change failures as it evolves both its functionality and keeps up with Terraform's rapid developmental pace.

For even more peace of mind you can clone this project and use your own continuous integration facilities. Send a pull request for any changes that will benefit the Terraform community.


## How to Run the Example

```
# get module and go to example directory
git clone github.com/devops4me/terraform-aws-vpc-network
cd terraform-aws-vpc-network/example

# export access information
export TF_VAR_in_role_arn=<<role-arn>>
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<<access-key-id>>
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<<secret-access-key>>
export AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=<<region-key>>

# use terraform to bring up and tear down infastructure
terraform init
terraform providers
terraform apply -auto-approve
terraform show
terraform destroy -auto-approve
```

## Inputs

| Input Variable             | Type    | Description                                                   | Required?      |
|:-------------------------- |:-------:|:------------------------------------------------------------- |:--------------:|
| **in_role_arn**            | String  | Pass if using an IAM role as the AWS access mechanism.        | optional       |

### What is the role arn?

If you are using an IAM role as the AWS access mechanism then pass it as in_role_arn commonly through an environment variable named **TF_VAR_in_role_arn** in addition to the usual AWS access key, secret key and default region parameters.

Individuals and small businesses who don't have hundreds of AWS accounts can omit the variable and thanks to dynamic assignment the assume_role block will cease to exist.


docker run \
    --detach \
    --name vm.vpc-network \
    --network host \
    --volume ${PWD}:/home/ubuntu \
    postgres:11.2;




## Related Modules
